Suddenly my thoughts were interrupted by the sound of running
feet behind me and by a voice which called me by name. I turned,
expecting to see Dr. Mortimer, but to my surprise it was a
stranger who was pursuing me. He was a small, slim, clean-shaven,
prim-faced man, flaxen-haired and lean-jawed, between thirty and
forty years of age, dressed in a grey suit and wearing a straw
hat. A tin box for botanical specimens hung over his shoulder and
he carried a green butterfly-net in one of his hands.

“You will, I am sure, excuse my presumption, Dr. Watson,” said he
as he came panting up to where I stood. “Here on the moor we are
homely folk and do not wait for formal introductions. You may
possibly have heard my name from our mutual friend, Mortimer. I
am Stapleton, of Merripit House.”

“Your net and box would have told me as much,” said I, “for I
knew that Mr. Stapleton was a naturalist. But how did you know
me?”

“I have been calling on Mortimer, and he pointed you out to me
from the window of his surgery as you passed. As our road lay the
same way I thought that I would overtake you and introduce
myself. I trust that Sir Henry is none the worse for his
journey?”

“He is very well, thank you.”

“We were all rather afraid that after the sad death of Sir
Charles the new baronet might refuse to live here. It is asking
much of a wealthy man to come down and bury himself in a place of
this kind, but I need not tell you that it means a very great
deal to the countryside. Sir Henry has, I suppose, no
superstitious fears in the matter?”

“I do not think that it is likely.”